What is a galaxy galaxy?
Until the 19 twenties, we only knew of our own galaxy,
the MilkyMilkyMilky Way.
Even with telescopes, we could barely see little fuzzy spiral shapes in the sky,
and we wondered what, exactly they were
dusty nebulas
or other Galaxies entirely.
There was a great debate about the issue.
Ultimately,
Henrietta Swan Leavitt's work on distances to stars
enabled Edwin Hubble to prove that the largest
fuzzy spiral shape in the sky was actually a galaxy entirely separate from our own.
The Andromeda Galaxy
so cool.
It was the beginning of our discovering and grasping
the vastness of space.
Since Andromeda,
we've learned there are billions more Galaxies outside of the Milky Way.
Galaxies are concentrations of stars, gas, dust and dark matter,
all held together by gravity.
Many Galaxies are spiral Galaxies like the Milky Way,
but there are also elliptical and irregular Galaxies.
As far as we know,
all large Galaxies have a super massive black hole at their centres.
We also know that Galaxies interact with each other,
creating beautiful new forms over millions of years.
This is true for Andromeda and the Milky Way, too.
Our galaxy is on a collision course with our nearest neighbour.
While that may seem violent to you and me,
Alexis
are so huge that most stars will pass right by each other
few.
Eventually, the Milky Way and Andromeda will merge
into one giant new elliptical galaxy.
It's not for another several billion years, but
it's sure to be a spectacular show for the stargazers of the distant future.